Invisalign Sandbanks Poole Dentist Offers Teeth Straightening Smile Makeover During Lockdown

Dental Concepts Sandbanks is pleased to announce that their Sandbanks Poole dentist practice is offering teeth straightening smile makeovers even during the lockdown. The smile enhancement is a major focus of the treatments they provide and the first orthodontic option they offer is teeth straightening. The second procedure available is teeth whitening. And finally, their third procedure utilizes composite veneers. They also offer Invisalign treatments for straightening teeth and more about this can be gleaned from https://www.dental-concepts.com/invisalign-treatments-top-section/.
The above-mentioned three kinds of dental procedures are done together or performed separately, based on the patient’s smile needs. Teeth alignment is for crooked or uneven teeth. Alignment can be accomplished by braces, which have been traditionally metal braces. Unfortunately, metal braces have some disadvantages, such as discomfort and the fact that people who wear them may feel embarrassed by the conspicuous metal braces.
Invisalign Sandbanks Poole
Fortunately, invisible clear braces or aligners, such as Invisalign, have been designed to straighten teeth discreetly, without affecting the patient’s everyday routine. There are various advantages of such invisible braces, such as: straighter teeth that are healthier teeth because there would be no gaps for plaque to accumulate in over time; the fact that orthodontics are a long-term investments for oral health; increased confidence due to a more attractive smile; and the assurance that the teeth will not move after treatment has been completed.
A major benefit from Invisalign is the fact that they are virtually invisible, which means that other people will not likely notice them. A patient wearing them will be able to do his or her daily routine without interruption from other people. Invisalign aligners are also removable, which means that the user is not restricted on what he or she can eat by simply removing the aligners temporarily before eating. It would also be possible to brush and floss without hindrance by removing the aligners temporarily, which means better maintenance of oral health. Meanwhile, Invisalign is also offered at the Andover and Whitchurch branches of the dental office as indicated at https://www.dental-concepts.com/invisalign-braces-andover-whitchurch-hampshire/.
The Invisalign aligners have no metal wires or brackets like the conventional metal braces. Thus, in most cases, the patient will spend less time in the dental office for maintenance. And lastly, patients would be able to view their virtual results and treatment plan even before they start treatment. They would be able to see how their teeth would look after the treatment has been completed.
Teeth whitening is another procedure that makes up the smile makeover package. It is a non-invasive and simple cosmetic dental treatment that can lighten the colour of the teeth. The degree of whiteness will vary, depending on the patient and the kind of bleaching process that is used. Dr Manish Chitnis, principal dentist at Dental Concepts, believes that Enlighten Smiles is one of the best teeth whitening system and it includes a combination of in-office and home teeth whitening.
And finally, dental veneers offer the third method for providing a smile makeover. It can be used to provide the necessary correction for teeth that are chipped, stained, or misaligned. Dental veneers are made of porcelain or composite materials, which are very thing and placed over teeth using a very strong adhering material. As such, veneers can be used to enhance the colour, shape, and position of the teeth.
Dental Concepts Sandbanks offers various kinds of dental services. These include cosmetic dentistry, restorative dentistry, preventive dentistry, general dentistry, and orthodontics. Cosmetic dentistry services include white fillings, veneers, teeth whitening, smile makeovers, gum contouring, and teeth reshaping. Restorative dentistry includes broken teeth treatment, dentures, bridges, crowns, and CEREC ceramic dental crown. Preventive dentistry services include dental hygiene, bad breath treatment, decay detection, mouth cancer diagnosis, gum disease treatment, and more. They also offer dental implants, which can offer a permanent solution for missing teeth.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Fkh9w3OWgzA
Those who are interested in learning more about the smile makeover and other dental services offered by Dental Concepts Sandbanks at https://sandbanks.dental-concepts.com/, or contact them on the phone or through email.

For more information about Dental Concepts Sandbanks, contact the company here:
Dental Concepts Sandbanks
Dr Manish Chitnis
01202 099690
perfectsmile@dental-concepts.com
Dental Concepts, 1st Floor, 25 Haven Road, Canford Cliffs HNB, Sandbanks BH13 7LE, United Kingdom